
# Backstory

So the Trox are very peace loving defenders generally. They welcome everyone with open arms and detest violence, but they're not pacifists. If they need to defend themselves they don't hesitate
And here's where I'm tweaking the wiki lore a bit: They're very involved in the galactic pursuit of justice. They're not a massive galactic presence, but they're a know thorn in the side for the more naughty planets/empires
They aren't a massive force in the galaxy, so they're only really directly involved in a handful of conflicts at a time (edited)
but yeah if a peaceful planet gets invaded, the Trox will intervene to try and stop the invaders and whatever nearby planet(s) is doing evily shit like practicing slavery they are definitely involved in. Trying to get the planetary government to outlaw slavery and become overall better for the people.  thing is they don't really make this change happen by fighting.  it's almost all diplomacy. Think of them like the Drakken in endless legend I guess. Well I guess more like they want to be the Drakken. They can't stop a war just by saying "no" lol. They're usually pretty successful at making governments reform and having invaders fuck off. But it's almost always extremely slow progress because they fret extensively over doing everything correctly, by the books, and diplomatically. So in terms of flaws. They have the same sorts of flaws as the galactic republic in star war overall good, but they're justice takes fukn forever and sometimes even gets stuck in diplomacy hell. And sometimes they get played hard because the baddies know that they'll be given a lot of time and slack before the Trox actually get involved. this is my characters main gripe with his race and why he's fucked off to do his own thing. He thinks they're method of stopping evil is extremely ineffective and they should go for the peace via violence option much much sooner. He made this choice in anger and hasn't really thought it all through. At this stage he's thinking about how to make a point to his people. He wants to convince them that the violence option should be more readily considered


The Trox are from [[Nchak]], a moon of the planet [[Liavara]]. Sector 0708.